New analytics section (#2826)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/analytics/bind_events_user.mdx

---

> title: Bind analytics events to a user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Differentiate users across search analytics
```

> description: This guide shows you how to manually bind analytics events to search queries using the X-MS-USER-ID HTTP header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This guide shows you how to manually differentiate users across search analytics using the X-MS-USER-ID HTTP header.
```

---

> # Bind analytics events to a user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Bind search analytics events to a user
```

> By default, Meilisearch associates analytics events with the most recent search of the user who triggered them. This guide shows you how to manually bind analytics events to search queries using the `X-MS-USER-ID` HTTP header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Meilisearch uses IP addresses to identify users and calculate the Total User metrics. This guide explains how to use the `X-MS-USER-ID` HTTP header to manually link analytics events to specific users. This is especially useful if you're searching from your backend, as all searches would otherwise appear to come from your server's IP address, making it difficult to accurately track the number of individual users.
```

## Requirements

- A Meilisearch Cloud project with analytics and monitoring enabled
- A working pipeline for submitting analytics events

## Add `X-MS-USER-ID` to your search query

Include the `X-MS-USER-ID` header in your search requests:

<CodeSamples id="analytics_event_bind_search_1" />

> Replace `MEILISEARCH_USER_ID` with any value that uniquely identifies that user. This may be an authenticated user's ID when running searches from your own back end, or a user's IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `X-MS-USER-ID` with any value that uniquely identifies that user. This may be an authenticated user's ID when running searches from your own backend, or a hash of the user's IP address.
```

Author: `MEILISEARCH_USER_ID` is referring to the placeholder value in the example. Also, although "backend" is accepted by some dictionaries, it seems most prefer "back end" and that's what we're using in the docs.

I'm modifying your suggestion directly instead of making a new one in this comment.
